=head1 NAME

HOWTO-Templates - How to write Slash templates


=head1 What is a template?

A template is a bit of text that is parsed by Perl, using the Template
Toolkit.  Template Toolkit has support for variables, control structures,
and more.  It is more easily understood and edited by non-programmers
than is Perl, and it is much safer than executing raw Perl code.

Templates are compiled into Perl functions and the resulting compiled
code is cached.  Templates are fast and convenient and easy.

For more information on how templates are written, see the man pages
for Slash::Display and Template, and the Template Toolkit web page
at E<lt>URL:http://www.template-toolkit.org/E<gt>.


=head1 How do I get my template into a running site?

Use the Template Editor via the admin menu on the site, or use
template-tool on the command line. You can find out information
on it by calling it with the "-h" option.


=head1 How do I get my template installed with a plugin/theme?

For a plugin it has to be added to the PLUGIN file (see
F<HOWTO-Plugins>). For a theme it just needs to be in the templates
directory for the theme (see F<HOWTO-Themes>).


=head1 What language encoding are the templates using?

There is a language field for templates, which is, by
default, "en_US".  However, it is not currently used by the
code.  We have not entirely decided how to handle languages yet.

Currently, the language is based on the same method used to determine
locales on Unix: two-letter, lowercase, ISO 639 codes for language;
two-letter, uppercase, ISO 3166 codes for country; joined with an
underscore.  e.g., en_US, en_CA, de_DE, zh_CN, ja_JP.


=head1 How do I generate a blank template?

Use template-tool:

	template-tool -g filename


=head1 Can I set my own Template options?

As of now, the only way to do it is to add them to the Slash/Display.pm file,
which changes them for everyone.  We will likely be adding some variables
to the vars table to set your own preferences.


=head1 Why does whitespace keep disappearing between Template tags?

[* THIS IS IN PROGRESS.  IGNORE IT FOR NOW. *]

We have the POST_CHOMP, PRE_CHOMP, and TRIM options turned on.
L<Template::Context>.  L<Template::Parser>.  TRIM essentially removes leading
and trailing whitespace from the output of templates and BLOCKs.  So if you
INCLUDE a template or BLOCK, there will be no leading or trailing whitespace.
PRE_CHOMP and POST_CHOMP do the same, but for the beginning or the end of any
Template tag.  So "[% foo %] bar" is rendered as "[% foo %]bar".

TRIM cannot be disabled without changing the value in Slash/Display.pm.
PRE_CHOMP and POST_CHOMP can be disabled with the "+" sign placed immediately
after (for PRE) or before (for POST) the tag delimiter.  For example,
to keep the whitespace inthe example above: "[% foo +%] bar".


=head1 I have a really cool template for a theme/plugin, and I would like
to see it added to the Slash distribution. Will you distribute mine?

Maybe. We don't have any rules concerning this at the moment, so it will be
on a case by case basis. At some point in the future we will come up
with a much better answer. If the theme or plugin is one not included with
the Slash distribution, you should contact the theme's or plugin's creator
directly.

=cut
